As a PWA, ZKorum is installable on most existing devices. ZKorum adopts a passwordless authentication process to improve security and enhance user experience. Unlike existing passwordless solutions, ZKorum relies on the standard WebCrypto API to generate a non-exportable private key stored in IndexedDB in the browser. This key is then used to identify the device’s browser by deriving a Decentralized Identifier (did:key method).
This DID is then used to sign JWTs that are sent to the backend at every request. The exact format of JWT being sent is UCAN.xyz, the de-facto standard for DID-centric decentralized auth in the web3 space. This protocol has been initially developed by Fission Codes and is now maintained by a growing ecosystem of users such as web3.storage, IPFS/Filecoin, Bluesky. However, no solution to this day combines the usage of UCAN with traditional email one-time password authentication and with Verifiable Credentials in the context of traditional client-server applications. ZKorum innovates by doing just that: email address one-time code is used to register a new user and its device, and then every request is signed using the device’s DID. Cryptographic secrets are generated directly in the browser, then encrypted using this available key, locally cached and finally synced and backed up via ZKorum server. When adding a new device by verifying the email address with it, the already registered device must accept the synchronization via web push notification.

ZKorum combines the breakthrough of the decentralized auth space, which solely uses DID but not Verifiable Credentials, with the Self-Sovereign-Identity space which usually work on solutions around OpenID. Some advantages of the UCAN solution over OpenID are the native access to integrating local-first and peer-to-peer aspects, and above all the capacity to encrypt data via the private key that’s been generated. Traditionally, as WebAuthn doesn’t support arbitrary data encryption, web applications managing sensitive user data such as password managers rely on password derivation to generate an encryption key. Our solution removes the need for this complex and potentially flawed cryptographic technique, and removes the need for a password at all, which is often agreed to be the primary source of cyber-attacks, besides being annoying for users.

ZKorum aims to support external wallets holding externally issued Anonymous Credentials, but instead of awaiting organizations to issue them, ZKorum takes a proactive stance by reusing the Web of Trust via email verification. Most large organizations already own a domain name, and distribute unique email addresses to their members. By reusing this infrastructure, ZKorum is able to easily organize users into communities. Upon successful registration using a community email address, users self-attest attributes by filling a form, so ZKorum can issue them corresponding Anonymous Credentials. In this feature, ZKorum acts as both the issuer, and the wallet. The wallet is secured by the mechanisms exposed above. Every member of the community is given the possibility to verify how other members filled their form, mitigating the impact of users entering fake data in the web forms.

Besides constituting a useful product by itself, email-based communities are a gateway to showcasing ZKorum capabilities, convincing organizations to issue credentials themselves, and convincing more wallets to support Anonymous Credentials.

In many aspects, the email-based communities feature ressemble Teamblind approach, but unlike Teamblind, ZKorum can never know who said what. A ZKorum post is a Verifiable Data that takes the form of a Verifiable Presentation self-containing its cryptographic proof that it originated from a specific subgroup of a community, thanks to fine-grain attributes in the Anonymous Credentials. Yet this data never reveals any unique identifier that could correlate to the underlying person, or to Personal Identifying Information such as an email address or an university ID.

This is made possible by using various zero-knowledge proof techniques implemented in Dock crypto library: meta-equality proofs, blinded credentials, non-revocation accumulator proofs, pseudonyms and attribute-bound pseudonyms.

Our innovative protocol for posting/voting/polling in a privacy-preserving way with VC relies on the generation of a secret value directly in the device’s browser, which is afterwards blind-signed by ZKorum’s server and returned in a Blinded Credential. This secret is a 32 bytes-long cryptographically random number, which is generally considered secure against brute-force attacks. The secrets used to unblind the Blinded Credential into a Verifiable Credential are also locally generated and encrypted. Both encrypted secret information are then sent to the server for backup and sync across the user’s devices.

Posting as an university member then simply means generating an attribute-bound pseudonym from both this “secret” attribute and the “university ID” attribute, generating the post metadata and payload and tying everything together into a Verifiable Presentation.

On reception of the Verifiable Presentation, ZKorum verifies the integrity of the data, then forwards the hashed packet to a TSA Server, and finally broadcasts the timestamped Verifiable Presentation on a channel of a custom libp2p node created specifically for this purpose.

The frontend embeds this libp2p node and sees their own message being broadcasted, which serves as a confirmation that the message has been sent. If users don’t see this confirmation, it means either there is a bug or something fishy is being done by ZKorum’s server.

This way, we build censorship-resistance. As data is verifiable and broadcasted in this public peer-to-peer network, anyone can run the ZKorum node and keep track of the data that’s being forwarded. They can then visit ZKorum website, and control whether ZKorum banned certain content, making ZKorum accountable for its moderation policy.

But we do it with privacy and environment in mind. 

First, only a hashed version of the actual post is contained in the Verifiable Presentation. Therefore, there is no need to worry about deleting the post after the Verifiable Presentation has been broadcasted. ZKorum’s server is the only entity receiving the corresponding preimage. Even though data is already anonymized so we already comply with GDPR, we take a step further with this approach because we believe users should still have the right to delete their posts if they want, and control where it is sent. If we had broadcasted the preimage of the post itself, there would be no way we can ensure somebody doesn’t still hold the data somewhere.

Secondly, we do not rely on a blockchain for censorship-resistance because it would be a waste of money, and above all a waste of energy. Most posts of ZKorum are not expected to be of the utmost importance that people want to keep track forever of its existence on a blockchain. We think that’s what happens with many NFT and other so-called “shitcoins”. On the rare occasions where trust on ZKorum wouldn’t be enough, and even when it wouldn’t be, anyone is free to run the ZKorum libp2p node to listen to what is being broadcasted and record the data in order to keep ZKorum accountable. This way we get the best of both worlds: censorship-resistance but only when it really matters.


